# Phone exchange - Proof of concept
This project aims to create an analog phone exchange for analog phones, supporting both pulse dialing and tone dialing.

This is a learning project and my personal introduction to programming, arduino and electronics. It might end up with a pile of electronic scrap and hundreds of unused disfunctional lines of code, but it will result in a lot of knowledge and a steep learning curve.

The project is coded in C++ and will use a microcontroller with wifi so that the exchange system can be govern or controlled externaly.
I'm using the [KS0835F](docs/KS0835F.pdf) modules for each phone line to monitor if the Phone hook is on or off. Them modul also generates the ring pulses to the line. A MT8816 will handle all Ain and Aout connections so that a single line is only connected to one lime at the time. The setup neads many GPIO-pins so a bucnh of MCP23017 vill be added.

A typical procedure of the system will be as shown below. A more detailed flowshart can be found [hear](docs/PhoneStatusflowshart.drawio.png)
- A hook is lifted, and the status of the line changes from "idle" to "ready."
- A phone number is dialed using pulse dialing or DTMF tones, and the digits are captured by the microcontroller.
- Ring pulses are generated for the dialed line. Once the hook is picked up, the audio lines are connected using the MT8816.
- One of the phone hooks is put down, ending the call. The audio connection is broken, and the statuses are updated accordingly.

## Phone statuses
Every phone is assigned a status for each moment, depending on how the phone is operated.

- Hook - If the phone hook is on or off due to the status
- Timer - If the new status initiate a timer
- Audio -  If a audio is played to the line due to the status (might not be implemented)
- Tone - if a tone is played to the line due to the status (might not be implemented)

| Phone status  | Function                              | Hook | Timer | Audio | Tone |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------- | ---- | ----- |-------|------| 
| idle          | Line is not in use                    | ON   | No    |
| ready         | Line is ready, waiting for inputs     | OFF  | Yes   |
| puls_dialing  | Rotary dialing in progress            | OFF  | Yes   |
| tone_dialing  | Tuch-tone dialing in progress         | OFF  | Yes   |
| busy          | Receiving busy signal                 | OFF  | Yes   |
| fail          | Line failed to connect                | OFF  | Yes   |
| ringing       | Line is ringing (outgoing call)       | OFF  | Yes   |
| connected     | Call is active                        | OFF  | No    |
| disconnected  | Call has ended, but line not yet idle | OFF  | Yes   |
| timeout       | Line timed out                        | OFF  | Yes   |
| abandoned     | Line was abandoned                    | OFF  | Yes   |
| incoming      | Incoming call                         | ON   | No    |
| operator      | Connected to operator                 | -    | No    |


## More features
- Tones are playing when a hook is picked up, during calling, and if a failure occurs. The tones must be generated by the microcontroller in some way and directed to the active lines depending on their status.
- Special audio sounds will be sent out to a certain line if you, for example, dial a secret number or try to reach 112 (911) without knowing that the phones are not connected to the main tele-network.
- Ability to receive calls from outside the network via a 4G receiver. This feature would be quite hard to implement but not impossible.
- A webpage where settings can be adjusted, line status is shown, and maybe traffic logged.
- MQTT server connection where statuses are updated.
